# Introduction

Statistics is a branch of mathematics that deals with the collection,
analysis, interpretation, presentation, and organization of data. It
provides tools and techniques for making sense of complex data sets and
drawing meaningful conclusions from them.

Statistics is used in a wide range of fields, from business and
economics to social sciences, engineering, and medicine. It plays a
vital role in decision-making, helping us to understand patterns,
trends, and relationships in data, and make informed judgments based on
that information.

Some of the key concepts in statistics include measures of central
tendency (such as mean, median, and mode), measures of variability (such
as standard deviation), probability distributions, hypothesis testing,
and regression analysis. Understanding these concepts can help us to
make sense of data and draw accurate conclusions from it.

In summary, statistics provides us with a powerful set of tools for
analyzing data and making informed decisions based on that information.
It is an essential tool for anyone working with data, and is widely used
in many different fields.

![](Chapter-1-Introduction_files/figure-markdown_strict/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)

## Descriptive vs Inferential Statistics

Descriptive statistics and inferential statistics are two branches of
statistics that are used to analyze and interpret data.

Descriptive statistics involves summarizing and describing the
characteristics of a sample or population without making any inferences
or conclusions beyond the data itself. It involves using measures such
as measures of central tendency (e.g. mean, median, mode) and measures
of dispersion (e.g. standard deviation, range) to summarize the data.
Descriptive statistics are often used to provide a general overview of a
dataset, to identify patterns and trends, and to summarize key features
of the data.

Inferential statistics, on the other hand, involves making conclusions
and inferences about a population based on a sample of data. Inferential
statistics use probability theory and statistical methods to estimate
population parameters and test hypotheses about the population.
Inferential statistics are used to make predictions about the population
based on the data from a sample, and to determine the statistical
significance of the findings.

In summary, descriptive statistics is used to describe and summarize the
characteristics of a sample or population, while inferential statistics
is used to make inferences and conclusions about a population based on
data from a sample. Both branches of statistics are important in data
analysis and interpretation, and they complement each other in providing
a comprehensive understanding of the data.
