# Data

Data in statistics refers to any set of observations or measurements
that are collected from a particular population or sample. This can
include numerical data, such as measurements of height, weight, or
income, as well as categorical data, such as responses to survey
questions or demographic information.

Data is used in statistics to make inferences or draw conclusions about
the larger population from which the data was collected. This involves
using statistical methods to analyze the data and identify patterns or
relationships between variables.

There are many different types of statistical analyses that can be used
depending on the type of data being analyzed and the research question
being addressed. For example, descriptive statistics can be used to
summarize and describe the main features of a data set, while
inferential statistics can be used to make predictions or test
hypotheses about the population based on the data collected from a
sample.

## Variable

In statistics, a variable is a characteristic or property that can vary
or take on different values among individuals, objects, or events in a
population or sample.Some examples are age, blood pressure, heart rate,
height, gender etc.

# Data Types

Qualitative data and quantitative data are two types of data used in
research, analysis, and statistics.

<img src="IMAGE/Data type.png" alt="Figure 3.1: Data Types in Statistics" width="50%" />
<p class="caption">
Figure 3.1: Data Types in Statistics
</p>

## Quantitative Data

Quantitative data refers to numerical data that can be measured and
analyzed using statistical methods. Quantitative data can provide
precise and objective information about a particular phenomenon or
population, and can help researchers test hypotheses and make
predictions. For example, age, height, blood pressure, etc. Quantitative
data is further divided into discrete and continuous.

### Discrete variable

Discrete data refers to numerical data that can only take on certain
specific values, typically integers. This means that there are a limited
number of possible values that a discrete variable can take on. Examples
of discrete data include the number of siblings a person has, the number
of cars in a parking lot, and the number of children in a family.

### Continuous variable

Continuous data refers to numerical data that can take on any value
within a range, and can be measured with infinite precision. This means
that there are an infinite number of possible values that a continuous
variable can take on. Examples of continuous data include height,
weight, temperature, and time. Continuous variable is further divided
into interval and ration scale.

#### Interval scale

Interval data are continuous data where the differences between the
values are equal, but there is no true zero point. Examples of interval
data include temperature (measured in Celsius or Fahrenheit), time
(measured in hours or minutes), and IQ scores.

#### Ratio Scale

Ratio data are numerical data where there is a true zero point, and the
ratios between the values are meaningful. Examples of ratio data include
weight, height, age, and income (measured in dollars).

### Qualitative Data

There are some characteristics that cannot be measured as height, weight
and blood pressure. These variables can be categorized only. For
example: gender, ethnicity, race etc. Qualitative data is further
divided into nominal and ordinal.

#### Nominal variable

Nominal data are categorical data that cannot be ranked or ordered.
Examples of nominal data include gender (male or female), race (Asian,
Black, Hispanic, etc.), and favorite color (red, blue, green, etc.).

#### Ordinal variable

Ordinal data are categorical data that can be ranked or ordered.
However, the differences between the ranks are not necessarily equal.
Examples of ordinal data include education level (high school, some
college, Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree, etc.), income level (low,
middle, high), and satisfaction level (very dissatisfied, somewhat
dissatisfied, neutral, somewhat satisfied, very satisfied).

## Random Variable

A random variable is a mathematical function that assigns a numerical
value to each possible outcome of a random event or experiment. In other
words, it is a variable that takes on different values based on chance
or probability.

Random variables can be discrete or continuous. **Discrete random
variables** take on only a finite or countable set of values, such as
the number of heads that come up in a series of coin tosses.
**Continuous random variables**, on the other hand, can take on any
value within a range, such as the height of individuals in a population.

Random variables are used in statistical analyses to model and describe
the probability distributions of different events or phenomena. They are
often represented using probability density functions or cumulative
distribution functions, which provide information about the likelihood
of different outcomes.

Examples of random variables include the number of cars that pass
through a particular intersection in an hour, the temperature of a room
at a given time, or the number of people who purchase a particular
product in a day.

# Grouped Data: Frequency Distribution
